foreign
welcome to the smart economy podcast a
production of neonewstoday.com I'm your
host Dylan Grabowski in this episode of
the smart economy pod I sat down and
spoke with Chen Chu Ling the CEO and
founder of rock X Rock X is a
non-custodial staking as a services
provider for institutional grade clients
and is among the largest service
providers across Asia in addition to
staking Services Rock X also provides an
access node API that allows clients to
connect and sift through on-chain data
in this conversation shuling and I
discussed the early days of Bitcoin as a
semi-public industry in China and
building a delegated proof of stake
blockchain Network in 2017 the broader
Market evolving and becoming driven by
dap usage house staking digital assets
secures blockchain Networks the
opportunities and constraints of liquid
staking how institutional clients can
become part of a distributed validator
Network and much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed at any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with shuling and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Chen Joo Ling the CEO and founder of
rockex a company that is building a
gateway to web 3 and is Asia's leading
non-custodial staking and access node
API provider good afternoon good evening
good morning juling how are you doing
today hi everyone I'm feeling great
thank you for having me in smart economy
podcast I'm really excited to be part of
it yeah me too I'm excited for this
conversation because we're going to be
talking about blockchain services and
staking as a service provider and
there's a lot of questions about liquid
staking that I myself have as someone
who's been in the space since 2017 but
also that maybe our listeners who have a
few less years in the space might be
interested in learning about as well but
before we dig into all of that I just
want to kind of hear a little bit about
who you are and what your background is
so you have an educational background in
engineering and you started your career
in manufacturing and oil and gas so
before we get get to the crypto
blockchain part of your professional Arc
can you just share with us a little bit
about what you studied and what field
you went into after school sure yeah
absolutely I think you came back to my
years of experience right I do think
every bit of that experience adds up to
where I am and also you know that kind
of explains my passion and what I'm
doing right now so I moved to Singapore
when I was 18 under a government
scholarship so I studied Engineering in
Singapore mostly in chemical engineering
so the kind of Natural Choice of Korea
after that was oil and gas or
pharmaceutical so on my final year I was
very much unsure what exactly I want to
do did my internship at ExxonMobil as a
process engineer that was okay but like
nothing like really exciting for me so I
was like okay so I don't know what I
want to do maybe I should just go for a
grad school so that I could delay my
decision right so I was very lucky I got
into MIT so I moved to Boston for um
manufacturing mostly looking at you know
system Engineering Supply Chain Etc how
a complex system behaves how to simulate
that really loved it but that was also
during the time that at Boston because
there are so many schools so there's a
very strong culture of doing consulting
so the consulting firms hire a lot of
people from grad schools so I was like
okay maybe I just tried that we did a
few case computations we formed the team
we did that among different Business
Schools we did pretty well we got into
top three few case competitions so start
to receive money for that I was like ah
okay you know seems like a hobby might
change a career so that's how officially
my career started as a strategy
consultant in Singapore so my job is
basically advise governments and also
large companies in Southeast Asia on
various topics including Financial
Service and also telecommunication which
is more on the technology part and that
was back in 2013 where in Southeast Asia
excluding Singapore all the other
countries like Indonesia or Thailand
their whole telecommunication is only
picking up so is their fintech scene
right so that was where I started to
look at a lot of new things well the
interesting thing I did was advised the
Central Bank of Myanmar and also to help
them reform the financial sector in
Myanmar so one of the things I did was
to create e-money for a very much cash
Centric industry so you know we're
really trying to convince people that
get rid of cash and use their mobile
phones for payment and if you look at it
this is very much like a fiat-based
stable coin nowadays of course without
using a blockchain right so actually
without using blockchain then we have to
build very complex systems just to
making sure that everything tell us so
how much money in a bank is the same as
how much all the transactions in
circulation Etc I think blockchain has
made the whole stable coin use case much
more streamlined so so totally loved
that experience in Consulting for five
years then one day one of my roommates
at MIT called me up he's like hey I know
you're still reading a lot of business
plans you should really start to look at
white papers I was like what is that it
sounds interesting but I have no idea
what that is so he keeps on coming up
and say Hey you know we're already in
this space you should try it out why
don't you join us as a investment fund I
trust that guy a lot without knowing the
details right so okay yep I'm gonna quit
my job I'll join you guys so in early
2017 so that's how I got into crypto
space basically just by someone calling
me up so we start to read tons of white
papers trying to understand a lot of
Technology Concepts we talked to a lot
of projects as well trying to like help
them out so that was a really great year
you know knowing so many new friends
globally so that's also how I got into
this space awesome there's more I want
to pull on there but it's really
interesting to hear how when you were a
grad student at MIT you were doing these
kind of side gigs where you were
creating I would assume kind of like
consultancy plans for potential clients
and even better to hear that as a quote
unquote broke graduate student that you
were able to win some prize money that's
a really interesting Genesis into your
first career out of school like you I
hid in grad school because I didn't know
what I wanted to do afterwards and
ultimately became an urban planner which
is working with a lot of civil engineers
not necessarily mechanical engineers so
we share a similar professional Arc
where we started in one area kind of hid
out in grad school and then ended up
working in another area completely later
but I really appreciate the way that you
poised everything because it was kind of
your post graduate career and your first
job in career sector and then you were
recruited into the blockchain space in
2017 so I want to talk a little bit
about the project you were recruited to
but I want to hear first was 2017 the
first time you heard about
cryptocurrency about Bitcoin or about
ethereum and if it wasn't can you
remember the first time you heard about
cryptocurrencies and what your initial
thoughts were yeah so definitely 2017
was not the first time I heard about
Bitcoin if I remember correctly the
first time I heard about Bitcoin was
probably 2013 because it was on the news
because there was a bull run right and
everybody got excited but now if I
thought even closer one of my roommate
at undergrad so he was in the computer
lab in 2011 so he was actually mining
Bitcoin but he didn't tell me so I only
got to know that when we met again in
2017. I said dude you know you should
have told me that or at least you know
my computer was on all the time I wasn't
playing game all the time there are some
free capacity for that yeah so things
get like really interesting and also I
was born and raised up in Sichuan which
is the southern the Southwest part of
China so that's where there's abundance
of hydraulic power so only after I got
into crypto and I started to talk to
people I know it's a Tron I realized
that there are so many BTC minors there
because they're leveraging all the
hydraulic power yeah that's super cool
when you were in Sichuan I guess you
were in living there because you were a
student and you were probably studying
and traveling and then you spent some
time in Boston for graduate school but
what was the sense of ability for the
miners to just kind of go out into
public and talk about operating these
mining units I know that in 2014 1516
and even 17 from the top down level of
the national Chinese government there
still wasn't dislike or disregard
towards the mining industry it wasn't
until 2017 2018 that mining was banned
in the country so just to kind of get a
general sense of what it was like in
Sichuan where my miners afraid to go out
into the world and talk about what they
were working on was it kind of a
well-known secret that there were these
mining operations that were using this
really cheap electricity what was the
miners relationship with the broader
technology Community during that time if
you can recall yeah Julia I think you
summarized it really well in terms of
the period of times so nowadays as far
as I know there's no large scale of BTC
mining anymore in China because there
was a hard stop two years ago some of
them already started their operation in
U.S or even elsewhere right but in fact
prior to that BTC mining was kind of a
semi-public industry in China for the
simple reason that at the very beginning
they were using mostly hydraulic power
which are Surplus in certain rural areas
those electricity could have gone
useless if not there was BTC Mining and
so actually they created a lot of jobs
in really rural areas and also helped
those power plants a lot and also they
were kind of struggling in terms of
figuring out the tax part because the
government has no idea what to do with
that so the miners are actually winning
to pay for tax they actually will come a
clear regulations but they can't really
talk about it in public this is also one
of the reasons why we're doing proof of
stakes taking because we see this it's
more like the new mining in the proof of
stake era yeah no thank you for sharing
that I really appreciate your Insight
it's not very often that we get to have
conversations with folks who were kind
of around during that time and maybe not
working full-time in the industry but
definitely had their finger on the pulse
so it sounds like you were recruited in
2017 and it was almost an easy yes for
you you didn't have to sit there and
debate the merits of jumping into a
brand new industry and I'm sure we're
gonna lead into this as we talk about
your work at Elf or Alf I'm not quite
sure how to pronounce it but what was
the moment for you the thing that
clicked the thing that made you say in
your mind okay I need to work full time
in the space what was the thing that
made it impossible for you to say no
yeah so for me I think there were two
major reasons first of all I was about
to turn 30 and I was asking myself like
hey you know I spent so many years in
engineering but I never get to use those
knowledge right and I was a consultant I
was a man in suits all the time but at
one period of my life I do want to do
startups and if I start to have family
kids do I still have that much freedom
to try it out so back then I was still
very much into work so I thought okay
probably this is the time for me and
secondly back then my girlfriend which
is now my wife she was super supportive
she basically told me look if things
didn't work out she's still working we
still have bread on the table there's
nothing to worry about so as a couple
having that support means a lot to me
yeah it's really cool Janice is there a
lot of similarities in our backgrounds
as to how we got into the crypto space I
wasn't dating my now girlfriend so I had
to kind of have that conversation with
myself but I very much remember looking
in the mirror and saying if I leave this
previous career where I'm working for
the government and I have great benefits
and I go full time into the blockchain
space if everything collapses will I
still be young and educated enough and
hungry enough to go out and start a
brand new career so I I very much
remember these conversations but I was
having them internally so it sounds like
you were lucky to have a sounding board
to bounce these ideas off of so you
decided to bite the bullet you jumped
full time into the crypto space and I
want to talk about your first project
because I think it will help shape the
conversation for working on an
infrastructure and then how that changed
your perspective and gave you the idea
to launch a services provider for the
blockchain space so can you just share
with us what was this first project that
you started working on behalf of I
believe it's pronounced ALS but I could
be incorrect so could you just share a
little bit about what your first
blockchain project was sure yeah so it's
called L usually we just pronounce it
that way yeah so back in 2017 as you
know there were only a handful of
blockchains right and having smart
contract is also kind of like a new
thing back then because you see more
blockchains are trying to follow the
routes of Bitcoin just as a payment
blockchain but what we believe after
looking at so many different projects
right iu17 was that hey blockchain could
also be part of Internet that runs more
complicated stuff so we do like the idea
that ethereum was positioning themselves
as the road computer but also the
reality back then is that if you really
want to run something meaningful
ethereum it's super slow and also is
very costly so this is where I was
looking for opportunities to co-found
different projects and so I met my
co-founder back then for Elf so he's an
engineer so he's been already building
for half a year so we chatted a lot and
some of the ideas I really liked about
was number one it's hard for us to
imagine a road or a blockchain that
hosts hundreds or even thousands of the
apps on one single blockchain it just
sounds crowded and it also sounds like
you have no freedom of customized
anything on that public blockchain so we
envisioned this is more of a multi-chain
road where maybe different types of use
cases should be running on different
side chains and also if there could be
some kind of like a parallel processing
that will just make things much faster
so now if we look at it some of the
ideas are quite similar to what Cosmos
has achieved nowadays interesting so
just to paint some context for some of
the listeners you might not have been
around in 20 17 you left and started
working on elf around August September
October which was just before the peak
of the Ico bull market this was during a
time when ethereum had one dap that
clogged to the network cryptokitties and
if this is going to be the world super
computer then how is one dap that is
trading cute little cats that we use to
breed and make more cats how is this
going to clog this network that at the
time it was going to be all of the
world's computer processes today it's a
little bit more of a refined Vision so
that's kind of what my Genesis into the
space is as well I started researching
and writing about the Neo blockchain
which was kind of a Cinderella story in
2017 and 18 largely because I got priced
out of using ethereum as a retail user
which was basically my first few digital
assets when I just got into the space in
20 17 and to be able to send a little
bit of eth and having it cost me like
five six ten dollars that was kind of a
shocking moment for me so I can
definitely empathize and relate with why
you wanted to work on another project
like elf so as we're going down the Arc
of working on a blockchain network
something that I think might be a little
bit relatable is the lessons you learned
with building out this consensus
mechanism and working with a developer
community so can you just share a little
bit about what else consensus mechanism
was it doesn't sound like it was proof
of work and what was it like
collaborating and working with a global
developer community at that time yeah
absolutely right so we spent two years
building that out because in order to
achieve that Vision we couldn't really
take any codes from the existing
blockchains so we actually wrote
everything in c-sharp I believe actually
that's the same Choice as new blockchain
back then and and during that two years
I think a couple of the lessons that we
have learned number one is that how do
you get the global Community to know
about you right because information was
still kind of segmented so we try to be
you know every single conferences so we
went to consensus we went for like token
Summit I think we also got quite
fortunate that our investor line up we
got a Galaxy teach show you know we got
Michael Arrington so you know some of
those established names also help us to
get more publicity so yeah you know
developers start who came to us some
started to work as volunteers or
contributors then we recruited them into
full-time team members afterwards during
that time I think ethereum is already
kind of getting more onto the mainstream
in terms of how to build smart contracts
in solidity so one of the challenges we
were facing was how to educate
developers to use a different language
and even before that there was a
question of okay so because we can't
really borrow anything from ethereum so
what are the necessary or essential
tools that developers need has to be in
place so this includes you know okay do
you offer a free RPC notes for
developers to try it out do you have
some toolings some libraries for people
to use examples Etc so for us that was
one very big thing right if you want to
build a public blockchain yourself not
evm compatible it's a upkill battle
where you need to build a lot of things
from scratch and the second part about
the consensus so this is our belief
right if you really want to push a
blockchain that is efficient for smart
contract probably you should go for
proof of stake rather than proof of work
proof of work we like it in the sense
that it's probably the most secure way
for storage or value so that's what
Bitcoin or even a zcash is doing but if
you really want to do a smart contract
in an efficient way proof of stake
probably is the better way to do that so
we use the gated proof of stake
mechanism and now has also gone into
mainstream for most of the smart
contract blockchains and for us this is
also a paradigm shift to incentivize
token holders or to give token holders
more rows that they can play right
because unlike proof of work road if
you're a token holder you're just a
token holder but you know proof of stick
a world you are a token holder you can
also be the one that Safeguard the
blockchain itself you also have the
capability to vote on certain governance
topics for that blockchain so this is
actually a very powerful weapon to get
the community going and get them more
engaged yeah that's really interesting
so you have since day one in your
blockchain space been working on proof
of stake networks and I think something
that's super interesting about your
story arc is that you worked on the
infrastructure layer first and then
built staking as a services provider
company later so as we start getting
into what staking is and some of the
broader industry context for why Rock X
exists I did just want to hear an
opinion of yours granted that you've
been a builder since 2017. how has the
demands and the needs of a blockchain
network changed since your early days
into space and today what are the needs
that are different from 2017 compared to
today I tend to think that from 17 to 19
that was the period that people are
mostly talking about ideas and also just
theoretical trade-offs and that was also
the time that people were trying to work
on POC proof of our concept so it's only
after 90 and 20 we start to have real
d-apps that are running right so started
with some of the dexes like bancor uni
swap then getting to lending protocols
so in 2020 we saw the device summer that
started so yeah I think people start to
look at things very differently once
products are actually running so this is
the time where people think about things
in more details right user experience
gas fee optimization security which is a
big topic I think in this whole industry
we're getting more and more product
driven from our d-app perspective right
blockchain is not just about ideology or
political ideas you know now it's the
time actually it's product speaks for
itself yeah I love that so I want to
caveat these next few questions with the
fact that they might be kind of basic
they might be very intuitive for you
since you work in the space so much but
I do want to provide some context for
our listeners so forgive me if some of
these are a little Elementary so just to
paint some context you mentioned this a
moment ago that staking can be vital to
the security of a network so let's just
start with this question how does
staking from various different users
secure a network I like to take this
example that if you think about a
blockchain at the very minimum it's very
similar to a Visa payment Network so it
allows people to do transactions but
more importantly there needs to be a
party that processes all the
transactions you know correctly the
difference here is that for Visa Network
it's just one company doing that they
just do double check right or triple
check after that by blockchain the idea
here is that okay anyone can become one
of the parties that process those
transactions so the question here is
that okay it's permissionless right now
then what is the criteria for people to
play that role and how we can also
ensure that their incentives are aligned
to make sure the blockchain is secure so
this is where proof of stake comes into
play so the whole idea here is that if
you are a token holder meaning that okay
you have a stake in this blockchain you
probably are aligned that you want to
make sure that this blockchain is secure
and the more Stakes you have probably
you have more incentives to make sure
that this blockchain is working as
planned or even actually grow bigger so
how it works is that token holders can
use their tokens to nominate or to spin
up validators themselves or even trust
someone else Cloud editors so these
validators kind of like a elected
representative in the house right so
they actually does the work of
processing all the transactions perfect
so to secure a network you have users
provide a stake of digital assets and by
locking up those assets they choose
which validators are going to ensure
that the previous block and all the
transactions on it is indeed the correct
block with the right transactions and
once validated that can become part of
the chain of blocks and that's sort of
how the network is secured by people
essentially voting on who they want to
validate the network so prior to the
major eth upgrade that we saw earlier
this year users would lock up their eth
and it was an undetermined amount of
time that their eats would be locked up
for I guess it was the test net proof of
stake Network at the time now that that
major upgrade has gone through users can
opt to withdraw their eth from the
validator that they stake to and then
alternatively in other networks like the
cosmos based networks these app chains
typically have an unbonding period of 14
to 21 days two to three weeks so
historically we've seen in the staking
networks that while your assets aren't
permanently gone when you're choosing a
validator to vote for to secure the
network users do have limited access to
those resources so a phenomena that kind
of became mainstream for your average
crypto dgn within the past couple years
is something called liquid staking and
this kind of rose to prominence with
entities like Lido which I want to talk
about in a little bit but again
continuing down the elementary
definition level so that our listeners
have context can you just explain like
I'm five what liquid staking is yep so
as you mentioned Dylan prior to liquid
staking if people decide to stake a
validator their tokens are actually
locked up most likely in their own
wallet right so although those assets
are still in their wallet meaning that
nobody can touch it but also in return
they are losing the liquidity of those
tokens meaning that those tokens are not
allowed to be moved around or if they
are needing some cash they can't really
sell them off so staking becomes
E-liquid so the idea of liquids taking
is in fact using a smart contract so all
the tokens come into a smart contract
then they can be deployed down to
various stud editors and the token
holders in return would get a legal
increase taking token that represents
the ownership of the Native tokens that
we have staked so on one hand because
all the underlying native tokens are
staked so you can enjoy a yield just
like you have staked at the same time
because you are holding a liquid staking
token which shows the ownership of your
underlying tokens so also means that
okay without moving your underlying
tokens you can just trade or transfer
your liquid sticking tokens to achieve
that purpose so it sounds very good for
me as a token holder I have this asset
and I want to secure the network so I
use this asset to vote on a validator
but my Assets Now locked however this
liquid token comes around and it allows
me liquidity so now I can use this
liquid derivative of the token on dexes
or elsewhere in blockchain processes
that will accept this token so other
than providing the freedom of moving the
these assets and the ease of accessing
them are there other positive benefits
associated with liquid staking I'm not
trying to diminish the value that access
to these illiquid tokens provides that
in and of itself sounds like a really
positive externality but what are some
other positives that were not
necessarily thinking about because there
are also a lot of arguments that people
make against liquid staking so what are
some other positive arguments right yeah
so actually thanks for raising this up
because you just reminded me of another
very important benefit of liquid
sticking is the fact that by having
liquor staking you are actually making
all the principle but also the yield
itself wrapped token so this means that
we're bringing a yield or a crypto
native reward that is fully Unchained
and also that is fully D5 composible so
the very important implication occasion
here is that with liquid staking a new
type of yield comes into Define right so
in the past when we talk about yield in
D5 it's either about transaction fees on
yield farming or it's the lending
interest our lending protocol right
these two are great but these two are
always heavily dependent on business
activity so if no one is lending or if
no one is trading then there's no yield
on D5 and if there's no yield on D5
people don't find any reasons to use D5
but now here comes you know the liquid
sticking yield which actually comes from
the Block reward of the blockchain
itself so no matter whether people are
using or trading or lending this is
actually the first ever stable yield
that can last for long term okay so I
appreciate that you brought that up
because one of my questions was if
there's an individual who's liquid
staking let's say they're staking eat
and this yield they're earning is l e
we'll call it liquid teeth the
derivative token so that l e is tied to
the E3 wards that are being released as
part of the yield for operating on the
validator network so one of my questions
was if we're creating these liquid
staking tokens doesn't that just mean
that we're creating a brand new market
where there's only value on paper but it
sounds like your answer would be no
because the yields of these liquid
staking tokens is actually tied directly
to the yield of the tokens that are
acting as the underlying asset Yep this
is also why if you look at the current
D5 space SO trading on decrease taking
tokens has huge volume for dexis and
also lending against liquid staking
tokens has a huge volume on lending
protocols so in my view actually because
of the introduction of decrease taking
tokens this is gonna force all the D5
protocols to revamp themselves so they
can Embrace a new type of yield like
prior to liquid sticking token there's
no sovereignty bond in D5 but now
there's sovereignty Bond then there are
more things that people can play with
that's really interesting and I kind of
want to break from this line of
questioning to ask about the clients
that you have at rockex you mentioned
sovereignty Bond and this is the kind of
language that an Institutional Investor
or an Institutional client might be more
familiar with so is this like the liquid
staking derivatives and the yield that
you're going to receive and how it's
related to a sovereignty Bond when
you're having these conversations with
your institutional clients are these the
type of Concepts that help them wrap
their head around this new technology
and asset class and if not what are some
other ways that you connect the dots for
these kind of higher net worth larger
scale types of clients yeah so because
for rock X we focus on serving
institutional clients so it's really
important to make sure that they're
educated and comfortable using our
services right and use the example of
sovereignty bound or we call this the
internet sovereignty bond to help them
understand this right basically the
first question they're going to ask is
always about okay so now you're telling
me that if I stake my eat I'm gonna get
a yield who are you lending that to with
a no we're not lending that to anyone so
you don't have any counterparty risk or
liquidation risk in fact you are the
only one that has control of all the
tokens of your own so we're not adding
any additional risk to you then we can
explain to them where does that yield
come from so this is where the metaphor
of a sovereignty Bond comes from just
like in Asian this actually comes from
not the treasury but come from the
blockchain itself as a monetary policy
so there's an inflation that compensates
you for the yield on top of that there
is also part of the transaction fee that
also goes to your pocket so this is very
secret so transaction fee is very
similar to a real GDP generation in the
blockchain economy so we have had quite
a good success rate in terms of
explaining in such a way to institutions
and once they understand oh actually in
this case they're having very limited
counterparty risk probably their only
counterparty risk in this case is the
blockchain itself then they start to get
more interested and so they will start
to ask more about technical security
details and if you're ready then we
start to help them to do liquid sticking
so we are one of the node operators
behind Lido for the past two years and
this year we launched our own
institutional liquid staking solution
because we do think that the
institutional customers are the
underserved parties in the space awesome
I want to dig more into these
relationships and how they form and the
types of conversations you have but
before we do that I do want to just take
a quick step back and address two other
arguments that folks who do not not
support liquid staking might make and
they basically revolve around the
concerns of centralization so I think
like Lido has a double digit percentage
of the entire each Supply that is staked
on its Network so what are the issues
that some liquid staking providers might
have with centralization and the
centralization of digital assets of a
decentralized network and then secondly
How could a de-pegging event occur where
staked eth no longer represents at a
one-to-one ratio the underlying asset
eth itself so the two-part question is
essentially what are the concerns of
centralization and how do we address
them and what are concerns with
de-pagging so I think the concerns of
centralization on blockchain is always
relevant and is always real and this is
not something that is introduced by
linguistic can you know at the very
beginning of every blockchain usually
you also see that okay there's only a
few parties that are actually running
bad leaders for them this is also one of
the reasons why we set up rockex because
we want to be an independent validator
company so our mission is just to make
sure that we're doing the work as it is
so that there are always independent
validators like us now if certain liquid
sticking protocol has gathered so much
tokens right which could be double
digits and does that make things more
centralized I think yes this is
definitely a legit concern and this is
actually the reason why we do think that
in the market we also start to see more
protocols liquid sticking Protocols are
emerging right so by having a more
fragmented or diverse service providers
we can probably make things better and
of course you know I think Lido deserves
the position they are right now because
they are the first mover and they have
done a lot of things right but more
interestingly I would like to share this
idea called distribute validator meaning
that we could be very huge right let's
say we are running close to 10 000
validators but what we're trying to do
for the next step is to make sure that
among all the values we are not the only
one that has the full control of it so
we're going to invite some of our
institutional clients or even other
companies to collectively run all those
validators together so this is a concept
called distributed validated technology
that we have been heavily involved for
the past two years wow so that sounds
really interesting it's almost as if
you're going out and creating the
equivalent of a mining pool but you're
creating a staking pool of institutional
clients to decentralize the amount of
underlying assets that are held by
single entities and you're going out and
getting big name brands to dissolve or
to reduce the centralization of the
amount of assets that rockex Stakes so
maybe Rock X could have staked 10
percent we'll just use theoretics 10 of
the eth supply but then to provide a
distributed validator technology you
might reach out to 10 of your clients
and ask each of them to stake one
percent of the supply is that what
you're saying yeah conceptually similar
to that but we can do even better even
at a value digital level so maybe one
single validator will be partially
controlled by us and partially
controlled by a party too and partially
controlled by party three so this means
that okay no one can claim that this
validator is controlled by Rock X or no
one can claim that okay this is a
valuator controlled by a U.S company
this also makes all the validators more
robust very interesting so I do want to
ask another kind of Elementary level
question what's the difference between
custodial and non-custodial staking
services and how does Rock X provide
non-custodial staking Services the key
difference between custodial and
non-custodial staking service is about
who actually owns the wallet right so
you know non-custodial way it means that
it's the customer itself holding the
wallet and he has the private key in
your custodial way this is where not the
customer himself holding the asset or
the private key usually they rely on
third party that is let's say a exchange
or a custody right so it could be like a
coinbase or could be that they're using
maybe Cactus which is a custody so in
the custodial way you do put a trust a
third party for the security of your
assets so on one hand you know this
makes things easier for you because you
don't have to worry about remember your
private key or keep your private key
safe but of course at the same time you
just make sure that the third party is
doing their job for that and probably
you're paying a fee for that so we only
do non-custodial staking so meaning that
we do not offer a custody or a wallet
from our side customers can just easily
do a delegation on our validator while
all the tokens remain in their own
wallet so this is how we do it so even
if anything happens on our side let's
say our values get hacked or something
the hacker has no access to our user
response perfect what are the blockchain
networks that rockex provides
non-custodial validation services for
and what are the criteria that you guys
have for choosing which network to
operate a validator node for so our
belief is that staking is going to be
one of the largest Asset Management
methods in crypto economy and the
institution is going to play a big role
in it therefore we support all the large
market cap or we call it the Blue Chips
proof of stake blockchains right so
right now we support over 20 blockchains
that our customers need so the idea here
is that okay first of all these needs to
be blockchains with a large market cap
because that's where people are more
interested in and secondly they have a
good reputation or a technical
capability that internally we are
confident that they're gonna stay for a
long time and you know once in a while
we do respond to our customers requests
if they want to better a upcoming
blockchain and they want to have a
validate over there so we speed that up
on behalf of our customers so we have
done a lot for some of those app chains
within Cosmos but in terms of all the
Blue Chips we support a lot of evm
chains we support a lot of
interoperability ones like Polk dot or
Cosmos we support a number of high
performance chains such as Solana or
Aptos sway Etc very cool I'm not sure
you're going to be able to give us
specific examples of who your customers
and clients are but I'm going to ask
anyways can you share with us maybe some
examples of your clients and if you
can't can you give us some examples of
the types of Industries or the types of
companies they might represent yeah so
one company that has been working a lot
with us is Amber group right so they are
a large Asset Management platform that
also deals with institutions so
traditionally they are a very strong
team that does trading and lending
really well so they're kind of like a
Investment Bank that fulfills all their
customers needs particularly on trading
side but then they start to look at it
okay you know so they think that they're
really good at active management of
token yield right then they look at us
oh actually there's a new way of getting
yield which is more of a passively
managed one way through staking so they
start to engage with us and they start
to do a lot of staking onto our
validators so after these clients kind
of take a peek at Rock X and they see
the robust network of validator nodes
that rock X offers they get interested
but something I'm curious to hear about
this is an emerging industry tree within
an emerging industry validating as a
service so a you probably don't have
very much competition right now but B
what separates Rock X from other
non-custodial staking service providers
so they are already a number of
validator service providers in the
market particularly us and Europe so for
us I think first of all we are a rare
type that started long time ago in Asia
if you believe you know blockchain is
global I think you know definitely you
want to have valid editors across the
globe so that's number one and number
two compared to some other service
providers we not only do just ethereum
or evm compatible chains we actually do
more chains this is due to the fact that
in our mind our customers are the large
institutions and they will probably do a
more diverse portfolio of tokens so we
want them just to get to us and we can
fulfill all their needs and lastly not
only we do validators we also have
another service call about access nodes
so this is to allow large institutions
to do data analytics or to send in
transactions or to have any kinds of
interaction with blockchain without
running their own infrastructure So This
Is How We Believe by having both
validator to generate yield and also
access node for them to connect onto
blockchain we saw probably the first
questions when they get into blockchain
yeah that's really cool and so when you
have a new client on board are they
typically both choosing rockex to
provide validation Services as well as
tapping into the API infrastructure is
it kind of they're just getting both at
the same time or are you finding
generally clients have a preference for
one service over another we see that the
bigger clients actually tend to look at
both because they do have Ambitions and
also needs on both sides they start to
appreciate that we are supporting so
many different blockchains that probably
they can think of smaller companies they
might probably focused on one side so
this really depends on what type of
customer we're talking about yeah thanks
for helping clear that up it sounds like
rock X's value proposition compared to
your competitors is that you are a
protocol agnostic multi-chain staking as
a services provider so that's really
interesting to kind of grok and to think
about how your current and future
clients are really going to embrace
rockex further and further we're getting
towards the end of our time so I didn't
really get to dig into
this subject matter as much as I wanted
to but I still wanted to at least get
your perspective on this so as a builder
myself in a region that has lately been
unfavorable to crypto and blockchain I
can commiserate with a regulatory agency
potentially cracking down on businesses
located in your jurisdiction as far back
as I can remember even going back to
2018-19 Singapore was very for Forward
Thinking when it came to the digital
asset space however in the past few
years a handful of companies that were
headquartered out of Singapore have had
these spectacular collapses some of them
even borderline scams so as a regulatory
body the folks in Singapore really need
to make some actions happen they really
need to take a stance so it's no
surprise that we're starting to see the
curb of retail investing in Singapore
but I feel like this is just a very
short-term kind of response and Retail
investors demand Regulators step in when
we have these calamities like the
collapse of three arrows capital and FTX
as well as Terra Luna from both a
centralized and a non-centralized
perspective so I just want to really
quickly hear from your perspective
what's it like right now being a builder
in Singapore having a crypto based
company located in Singapore what's your
your outlook on the recent language that
has come out of the regulators and maybe
where companies that are headquartered
in Singapore what's the short-term
Outlook how long are you looking into
the future until your Regulators aren't
necessarily being so scrupulous with the
types of companies that are located
there so first of all you know I think
we're all aware of all the unfortunate
incidences that happened last year not
only in Singapore but globally but from
my perspective I do think that most of
the incidences happened are centralized
entities Luna is probably a rare type
but Luna itself is not really a T5 it's
a stable coin right it's algorithm
stable coin that had a flow in the
design itself but if you look at all the
other instances like Celsius or three
arrows FTX those are all custodial
entities that probably has some kind of
a mismanagement of their users funds so
I think first first of all that is where
the big focus of regulators are nowadays
is to protect users funds in a
centralized entity so that you know
they're not used elsewhere or risk
management is implemented in a proper
manner so on that front I think for the
regulations right now are basically
talking about okay if you're a car
Studio service provider either you need
to have a third-party custody so that
you cannot use your users funds freely
and you probably need to declare what is
the usage of user response when it gets
to getting yield so on that front we
think actually this is a good
opportunity for namcast audio providers
like us because in our case we're not
creating any potential risks to use
response but rather generating a
sustainable yield for them we foresee
that the need for such Services is going
to increase in the future and secondly I
think Singapore has a very resilient
ecosystem for blockchain I do got a
feeling that people have moved on from
some of the incidences happened last
year people are more looking into the
future whether this is about building
nft or building D5 or building the new
wave of C5 we see a lot of things going
on in this whole space and I think also
Hong Kong being very open and also
trying to be a pioneering certain
aspects is actually getting a bit of a
healthy competition to other parts of
the world yeah so we're very positive in
terms of how this whole Space is gonna
play out in the next six months to one
year yeah I share your positive outlook
2022 had some really negative things
that happened in the industry and of
course there's going to be some blowback
and some retaliation by Regulators to
protect retail investors so what we're
seeing right now isn't necessarily a
shock and shouldn't be a shock for
forward-thinking crypto companies
especially for folks like you who've
been building in this space since 2017
so it's really refreshing to hear a your
perspective on Rock X's non-custodial
Solutions already kind of addressing
some of these regulatory concerns but
also just acknowledging that indeed
Singapore is very forward thinking I
myself have been covering projects that
headquartered there in 2019 so that's
four plus years with the track record
and this jurisdiction so I share your
positive outlooks as well and
regulations were going to happen as a
result of all these fraudulent actors
from 2022 so that is just about our time
for this episode I want to thank you so
much juling for sharing an hour with me
it was really great to dig into your
background into your experience into
your very valuable knowledge skill set
and insights into staking as a services
and being a non-custodial provider so if
somebody listening to this is interested
in reaching out to you and reaching out
to rock X what's the best way they can
do that so please feel free to visit our
website at
www.rockx.com so that's where you can
find all the relevant information Nation
whether you want to use access node or
connectivity which we have free products
or if you want to use some of our
validated service so we have all the
information there always will come if
you want to send that email to me
personally I'll make sure that I read it
and I can either reply myself or get my
team to talk to you so my email address
is c for my surname and Julie at
broadcast.com perfect juling well thank
you for sharing an hour with us I really
enjoyed this conversation and I can't
wait to keep my ears to the ground and
see the new clients at rockex onboards
and the new networks that you and your
team validate moving forward so thank
you so much for sharing an hour with us
and I look forward to catching up again
sometime down the road yeah thank you so
much for having me deal and really enjoy
this hour and hope we can keep in touch
and we can chat more on various Topics
in the future definitely me too cheers
all right cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I noticed an interesting
correlation with rock X's multi-chain
support for validator services and
schuling's background in building an
alternative layer 1 public blockchain
network it was also intriguing to hear
how Rock X analogizes its staking
services and their subsequent incentives
to more traditional sovereignty bonds so
that there are larger scale clients can
more readily comprehend the role of
digital assets and networks and the
yield they can derive and it was
interesting digging into schuling's
philosophy of increasing staking Network
decentralization through Rock X's
distributed validator Solutions and
collaboration with their
institution-sized clients with that I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
new council member as part of Neo's
governance processes we appreciate you
and look forward to catching you next
time